2018: Polynomial representations of Integration-By-Parts relations

Scattering amplitude in quantum field theories allow us to compare the phenomenological prediction of theoretical models with the measurement data at collider experiments.
The study of scattering amplitudes, in terms of their symmetries and analytic properties, can provide a framework to develop techniques and efficient algorithms to evaluate cross sections.
To evaluate higher-order amplitudes, a computational technique called Integration-By-Parts Reduction is at present an unavoidable step.
In this process, a large set of linear relations between integrals is generated; by solving them, we can get a set Master integrals, which are necessary ingredients for our calculations.
In our poster, we describe some interesting representations for this formalism and their applications to generate Integration-By-Parts relations.
Within these representations, integrals are fully characterized by a single polynomial, and the Integration-By-Parts relations becomes a polynomial identity.

---------------------

Dead line: 2019/10/17

On Different Parametrizations of Feynman Integrals

Scattering amplitudes in quantum field theories allow us to compare the phenomenological prediction 
of theoretical models with the measurement data at collider experiments.
The study of scattering amplitudes, in terms of their symmetries and analytic properties, can provide 
a framework to develop techniques and efficient algorithms to evaluate cross sections.

Translating from Feynman graphs, Feynman rules allow us to write scattering amplitudes in terms 
Feynman Integral, which are given in momentum space integrals. 
Within this momentum parametrization, internal lines in a graph become denominators in integrands and 
we can generalize its exponent into an arbitrary integers.
In this way we consider a family of integrals which are characterized by the set of exponents in the denominators.

We usually transform these integrals of momentum parametrizations into various parametrizations; in our poster,
we discuss two different parametrizations of Feynman Integrals, namely a family of Schwinger-Feynman 
parametrizations and Baikov parametrization.
Schwinger-Feynman parametrizations clarify some graph-theoretical properties which given Feynman graphs have, 
and Baikov parametrization gives us geometrical interpretations of Feynman integrals through Gram-determinant.

We show that, in Schwinger-Feynman parametrizations, the famous Cauchy's integral formula can provide
a correct way of handling negative exponents in the denominators; the price we have to pay for this procedure
is dimension shift from d to d+2.
Within Baikov parametrization, the opposite dimension shift (from d+2 to d) is relatively easy to perform.






