secondExam.txt

Name: 
  Ray D. Sameshima
Affiliation:
  Graduate School and University Center, City University of New York
  New York City College of Technology, City University of New York
Banner ID number: 
  000118225
Supervisors:
  Andrea Ferroglia (City Tech and Graduate Center, CUNY)
  Giovanni Ossola (City Tech and Graduate Center, CUNY) 

Date: 
  May 26 2017 (2017/05/26)
Time: 
  10:30 am - 12:30 pm
Place: 
  The President's conference room at City Tech
  (Namm Hall room N-320)

Title:
Integrand Reduction reloaded; Algebraic Geometry and Finite Fields

Abstract:
The evaluation of scattering amplitudes in quantum field theory allows us to
compare the phenomenological prediction of particle theory with 
the measurement at collider experiments.
The study of scattering amplitudes, in terms of their symmetries and 
analytic properties, provides a theoretical framework to develop techniques 
and efficient algorithms for the evaluation of physical cross sections and 
differential distributions.
Tree-level calculations have been known for a long time.
Loop amplitudes, which are needed to reduce the theoretical uncertainty, are
more challenging since they involve a large number of Feynman diagrams,
expressed as integrals of rational functions.
At one-loop, the problem has been solved thanks to the combined effect of 
integrand reduction, such as the OPP method, and unitarity.
However, plenty of work is still needed at higher orders, starting with the two-loop case.

Recently, integrand reduction has been revisited using algebraic geometry.
Algebraic geometry provides a systematic formalism to deal with integral 
reduction as multivariate polynomial division, and Groebner basis plays a 
main role in the reduction process.
After the reduction, outcomes can be mathematically complicated forms.
Instead of treating them symbolically, we can simply evaluate such functions
on integer values to reconstruct them.
This functional reconstruction uses simply four basic arithmetic operation,
i.e., addition, subtraction, multiplication and division.
We usually perform such operations over the rational number field on 
computer systems.
The rational number field consists of an infinite set, and this fact can 
cause overflow in intermediate steps.
By introducing a finite field, which is a quotient ring of a prime, these 
four operations are closed in a finite set, and indeed are more efficiently
performed.


Outlines

Physics
  Scattering Amplitudes; General introduction
    Generation, reduction, and evaluation

  OPP (Multivariate Polynomial Division)
    Integrand reduction
    Master Integrals
    Examples
      1-loop over 4 and (4-2\epsilon) dim 

Techniques
  Algebraic Geometry
    Multivariate Polynomial Division
    Groebner basis
      Scattering amplitude in AG context
      Higher (all) loops

  Functional reconstruction 
    Newton and Thiele interpolation methods
    Finite Fields
      Rational Number reconstruction (with CRT)
    Toward Multivariate functions

Summary
  ideas, techniques
  Haskell
  Working examples (e.g., 2 var.)
    
(ttZ and ttW paper with Andrea)
  LO, NLO, and NLO(no qg) numerical evaluation of total cross section
    MG5_aMC
    Fortran

  What I did before this paper
    ttW and ttZ production at tree level
      FORM 
      Maxima


